Please click on the button called input's plus analysis for Step 6 where we talk about the customer
and the market.
Now you're going to notice here that at the top there is no white shaded cell.
And the reason is because I want to pull forward some information which will help you a lot when answering
questions in this section.
So in Step Six we talk about the customer in the market now back in the executive summary which is step
three which of course is just a summary of the important stuff that's going to be in the document.
But back in step 3 we talked about the ideal customer in some customer characteristics.
And so I automatically pulled forward your answers here which will help you to answer the questions
below.
So if we look at my sample answers I wrote down what are the characteristics of the ideal customer.
It was just movie or video game fans.
I kept it simple was the location of the ideal customer within two years of launching the United States
and here is the ideal customer within five years of launching and I wrote down some other demographic
details.
Now if you completed those those boxes those questions in step 3 they will appear here which again will
help you to answer questions here in this part.
All right so next up weve got here an optional one k which is customer survey research.
And so what Ive done is it asks you a question have you done any sample survey research from who your
customers might be or your potential customers or your customers right now and what you can do is you
can go to survey monkey dot com ads you can conduct online research and you can include them if you
want at the back of your business plan in the appendix I wrote here that I included the results of a
survey there I actually didn't.
But if you were to do this for a real company not a fake company and include it in your business plan
it would not only help you to better understand who your customer is but will also make your reader
look like you've done a ton of research.
Most people never do this in business plans.
OK and that's optional.
Skips the next one now.
Who is the customer.
OK you're going expand upon a previous answer by writing a three cents paragraph of who your ideal customer
is and you can include the average age if you want where they live the language they speak their income
level and a bunch of other things.
OK.
This is something we'll go into a lot more detail line in Step 9 when we talk about sales and marketing
but it's important to mention here because obviously we're going to try and sell and market to our customer
but we have to talk about who the customer is here and the market a little bit more detail.
And so if you want what you can do is you can look at the answers that I pulled for a few here.
If you answered them to help you expand upon that here.
And so here's an example of of what I wrote here based on our extensive customer research.
I put a little hype or little star here saying Please see the appendix which is it's not.
It's not real just pretend but it's also telling you where else to go within the document.
For more details.
But I wrote this you can write something similar if you want.
Or like always if you want you can flag this and come back to it later.
It's hard to complete an entire business plan in order.
Sometimes you have to jump around a lot which is why I had the flagging capability and the capability
to select any part of the document you want.
It's pretty cool.
It's fun.
OK.
So next up we have got customer concentration and I made this one a mandatory one because a lot of sophisticated
investors are people that analyze business models.
They get worried if too much revenue comes from one customer.
And when I used to work on Wall Street at Goldman Sachs and in the hedge fund industry and venture capital
industry I would always have the 10 percent rule question in the back of my mind which is do you have
any 10 percent plus customers as a percent of revenues which can be a red flag.
By the way just just right here and I wrote I do not have in this hypothetical example any customers
that are more than 1 percent of total revenue and this here is just an optional question on the profile
of your of your of your customers.
So I think it makes sense to collect information if you can from your customers especially since a lot
of sales in the long run for all companies will come from online sources.
And so I recommend having an email list I do it with my my students as well.
It's all optional whatever.
But you can do it in Survey Monkey which I used part of you can do it in MailChimp that's male S.H.
i m p doc.
And then later on when you want something more sophisticated you can use what I use which is a company
called active campaign.
So just write down what your strategy is or your strategy might be.
If you want it is optional you can skip that if you want OK this next one is not optional which is how
are you going to get customers what your customer attainment strategy is to just write down how you
plan to get them.
Don't talk about sales or March marking strategies yet because we're going to cover that a lot more
detail here in the sales and marketing portion in Step 9.
And you can read this the simple answer here if you want.
OK and then here other optional one if applicable Are you following your customers and potential customers
on social media accounts like like Twitter.
So it's just informational yes or no.
I just want a challenging challenge and in a good way to do as much as you can to learn as much as you
can about your customers or potential customers.
And I want you to also I want you to also follow your competitors or just go to your competitors I should
say don't fall.
But go to your competitors link your Twitter profile and find out who they fall in.
And I made a vlog on this too if you care which which will tell you a lot of information about who your
competitors are and so just watch this video here if you care.
It will basically tell you how you can lower in tone about anybody by just looking at who they follow
in Twitter.
Right.
And so a lot of your competitors that are salespeople they will probably follow their biggest customers
because their biggest customers likely follow them and it's rude not to follow or follow back.
A big customer for example optional of course.
OK.
Next up I've got this one here which is Google alerts if applicable.
Have you signed up for Google Alerts in order to get media in e-mails.
Whenever your customers are in the news and this isn't something that you have to document in your business
plan.
But I just I put it down here I thought I'd be helpful as well.
And so I actually monitor whenever any of my courses are in the news or whenever somebody copyright
with somebody puts it up on one of those downloadable you know pirated web sites I find out right away
so I can take action or whatever.
OK.
Actually you don't meet us for us which is cool.
All right next up customer service is mandatory but a company is only because of customer service.
So you could write down how are you going to ensure a high level customer service I wrote down here
that will have an FAA Q section on our Web site which is frequently asked questions.
You can read the rest of this if you care.
And one of my employees I mentioned here is going to be in charge of telephone support.
Next one is customer response time.
This is optional How long will it take you and how do you respond to customers.
And then you have a loyalty program like a Starbucks card for example if you if you sell at retail that
sort of thing.
I don't have that in this example here but maybe you do and then we talk about your warranty policy
if you have a warranty policy that is.
I wrote here with a fictional example.
We offer a one year warranty etc..
You can read that if that's of interest to you it helps you.
OK.
Next up I've got industry search trends if applicable.
Have you done research or search trends on the industry you're in.
And this is pretty helpful.
I wrote here see the appendix for more details although I didn't include in the appendix just an example
but let me show you this this is really powerful and it's actually free.
So if we go together here to Google Search Trends
You can look at the search history for anything and you can look at what's pertinent and what people
care about in certain areas of the world whatever.
And so if we were to search for virtual reality you can just find out where people are searching for
this.
You know I'd probably do research why it was such a big spike here around Christmas maybe it is because
a lot of people got the Sony PSA for virtual reality goggles for Christmas or whatever it is or or why
is it spiking at certain times and you can see where there's there's interest by different regions.
You can download the information.
It's really really powerful.
For some reason this is a related topic maybe because people watched a version of the movie.
I don't really know.
But anyway check this out if you can't play around with it it's free and it's amazing to.
All right.
Next up we have got the Tambe sentence.
Remember we did this before we kind of covered it before I wrote here.
Read a sentence about the size and growth of the industry Tam.
Now in Step Three meaning back in the executive summary section we did cover this.
We wrote about this but we are and we also document the growth rate and if possible just provide a little
bit more detail on this.
If you want here I pulled that forward for you anyway.
I think it's important to mention it again.
So the executive summary is obviously a summary of all the important stuff and we talk about the TAM
there the total addressable market which is important but because this is the customer and market section
we have to talk about here.
If you want you can talk a little more detail completely your call next up and our this one on purpose.
Have you attended local media events to network or learn more about the markets and the industries you
can go to meet up dot com and you can find a local meeting for basically every type of sector there
is out there and network in almost every company in the world so check it out it's pretty cool.
And so here this is optional but you can talk about in more detail the percent of Tam that you want
to have a restful market in five years.
We talked about before you can expand upon it here if you want.
The reason we talked about before was because it was in the executive summary.
You can expand upon it here if you want to and it might help you actually for later on in Step 12 when
we discuss the financials because if you mention that you want to get 1 percent or 5 percent of a billion
dollar mark then that equals $10 million or $50 billion in revenue which you can model in your income
statement which is the yes don't don't go there yet we'll go there together later on the course.
Thanks so again the stuff are doing now is little bit more qualitative and quantitative stuff for our
our financial model or for a business plan General will largely be located here in Step 12.
We'll go there to get the okay.
And so next up is you can talk about industry trends or drivers and drivers means things that make your
industry do well and when you're doing the financial model we'll get to this later.
But most financial models have one main driver right.
So if it's a commodity you're selling Usually it's the price and maybe the supply as well that sort
of thing.
And then here you can talk about the problem and the solution as well that your product addresses no
cap.
And if you want you can go into more detail here on the industry problem energy solution as well.
We talk about this one already.
And then industry risks Okay.
And just talk about risks here.
If you can about the industry don't talk about the competition much as a risk though yet because we're
talking about the market in the next step which is Step 7 we'll talk about that the competition.
Here's an example I wrote here.
Where are the Beatty's meaning the barriers to entry.
You know what's stopping other people or other companies or established companies from doing what you
currently do.
Do you have a patent a copyrighted trademark that sort of thing.
And then last question here I included is seasonality and this is optional but a lot of companies see
their revenue spike every November around Black Friday holiday shopping the reason they call it Black
Friday is because from January until October most retail companies in the world are in the red.
Meaning they're losing money and they actually only break even in November by the third Friday in November
when Americans have Thanksgiving that's what they call it Black Friday.
Well a bit of interesting trivia for you there.
Anyway if there's seasonality in your business you know you'll want to talk about that.
Most companies have an uptick in Q4 meaning in the fourth quarter of the year which is Sept which is
October November December because it is year end there's holiday shopping into that sort of thing.
But this one here is optional in which you answered all questions.
You will see that you are 100 percent done here with customer and market you can always flag them and
come back to questions later red flag them like we've talked about before or what you can do is you
can just click this button here to override and just mark this entire step as being done meaning 100
percent.
So let me just do that here.
I mean we can see the status of Step 6 is 1 percent done.
We have one flag which is just added now to come back to it later if you want the optional and the progress
in the courses we're almost halfway done.
Right we're making great progress so we're now 43 percent done.
And I will see you in the outputs step for step 6 next.